docs: tags in a AsyncAPI document (#1957)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/concepts/asyncapi-document/tags.md

> ---

Reviewer: Excellent first draft with growth room for minor improvements, @TRohit20! 

You're so close but still have a few further improvements to make. 😄 **FYI, remember we observe USA (American) spelling, so remember to conduct another review of your spelling in this doc.**

----  

1. **Introduction:**

>  "A `tag` is a label or category that helps you logically group related objects such as channels or servers within an event-driven system. The `tags` object provides a structured way to group channels, operations, or other components based on their functionality, purpose, and/or any other relevant criteria."

➡️ Specify right away that this guide focuses on using tags **in the AsyncAPI specification** to avoid potential confusion, instead of including a mention of _"event-driven system."_ 

2. **Under 'Tags in AsyncAPI Document':**

> "The behaviour and impact of the `tags` object within the AsyncAPI document can vary depending on the context of the object in which it is being used." 

Great sentence, but it would be helpful to list more context where `tags` could be used upfront, instead of waiting to go into detail about each context in their respective subsections.

3. **Under 'Tags in Info Object':**

>   "Tags when defined within the `tags` property of the `info` object provide a high-level categorization and classification for the entire AsyncAPI document."

Let's simplify this sentence. For example, _"When defined within the `tags` property of the `info` object, tags provide a high-level categorization and classification for the entire AsyncAPI document."_

4. **Under 'Tags in Servers Object':**

Clarify if `tags` are a standard part of the AsyncAPI specification or if they are an _optional_ addition. 

5. **Under 'Tags in Channels object', 'Tags in Operations Object', 'Tags in message object':**

Well-written sections, but it would be useful to clarify if tags can be used to filter or search through channels, operations, or messages in some way. If so, could you explain how to do so?

6. **Consistency:**

Ensure consistency in using the back-tick for code keywords. In some places, it is missing... example, in _"tags in servers object,"_ It should be "`tags` in `servers` object".

Author: Roger that, Will work on all the improvements suggested along with my edit, I am making changes to the doc per @derberg 's suggestions, will ensure to implement the improvements along. Thank you!😅

title: 'Tags'
weight: 63
---

> --- Unique Description about AsyncAPI document to be inserted here ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

as discussed offline, this is not the doc to define that term :)

A `tag` is a label or category that helps you logically group related objects such as channels or servers within an event-driven system. The `tags` object provide a structured way to group channels, operations or other components based on their functionality, purpose and/or any other relevant criteria.

> The `tags` object serves as a container for defining and managing tags in a systematic manner. Within the `tags` object, you can define individual tags, specifying a name and providing an optional description that adds further context to the tag's purpose or usage. 

Reviewer 2: > The `tags` object serves as a container for defining and managing tags in a systematic manner

what do you mean by that? in the end it is just and only about grouping common parts of your system

> Once tags are defined within the `tags` object, they can be assigned to channels, operations or any other component using the tags property. By including the relevant tag names in the tags property, objects such as channels, servers or components are associated with the appropriate tags, grouping them based on their shared characteristics.

Reviewer 2: > Once tags are defined within the `tags` object, they can be assigned

what do you mean by "they can be assigned"? Tags list is individual per component. Later tooling interpret that if you are consistent with Info-level tags and tags in operations, then there is some other special navigation in docs showing up. But on spec level, they are independent  Tags lists.

unless you mean and suggest that people should add Tags to `components` and then reference them in channels and other locations? 🤔 but I don't think so as you talk about it in another paragraph

> Additionally, `tags` can also be included in the [`components` object](https://v3.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/v3.0.0-next-major-spec.12#componentsObject) of an AsyncAPI document, which enables the reusability of the tags. `tags` included in the `components` object can be re-used by [reference objects](https://v3.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/v3.0.0-next-major-spec.12#referenceObject).

Reviewer 2: remember to user relative links to docs, never absolute as the moment we do release and remove `v3` subdomain, they will be broken

example: instead of `https://v3.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/v3.0.0-next-major-spec.12#componentsObject` do `/docs/reference/specification/v3.0.0-next-major-spec.12#componentsObject`

## `Tags` in AsyncAPI Document
The `tags` object is a list of `tag` objects which can be referenced by [reference object](https://v3.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/v3.0.0-next-major-spec.12#referenceObject).

> The `tags` object within the AsyncAPI specification contains some fields that define and describe individual tags.

Reviewer 2: Tags do not have an fields, it is just a list of tags, and individual Tag has specific fields

> The behaviour and impact of the `tags` object within the AsyncAPI document can vary depending on the context of the object in which it is being used. For instance, The way the `tags` object impacts a server object is different from when it is used under the channels object.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The behaviour and impact of the `tags` object within the AsyncAPI document can vary depending on the context of the object in which it is being used. For instance, the way the `tags` object impacts a server object is different from when it is used under the channels object.
```

> The behaviour and impact of the `tags` object within the AsyncAPI document can vary depending on the context of the object in which it is being used. For instance, The way the `tags` object impacts a server object is different from when it is used under the channels object.

Reviewer 2: > The way the `tags` object impacts a server object is different from when it is used under the channels object

what do you mean by the impact and the difference per object?

Some of the fields that the `tags` object holds are:
- `name`: The name of the tag.
- `description`: A short description for the tag.
- `externalDocs`: Additional external documentation for this tag.

### `Tags` in `Info` Object

> Tags when defined within the `tags` property of the `info` object provides a high-level categorization and classification for the entire AsyncAPI document. These tags that are defined under the `info` object give a global context to the entire application, representing overarching themes or functional areas within the event-driven system. They serve as a way to group objects such as channels or servers based on their broader significance, providing a holistic understanding of the application's structure.

Reviewer 2: I like this paragraph a lot

Here's a visual representation of the `tags` object inside an `info` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```mermaid
graph LR
  A[asyncapi] --> B[info]
  B --> C[title]
  B --> D[version]
  B --> E[description]
  B --> F[tags]
  F --> G[name]
  F --> I[description]

>   F --> K[externalDocs]

Reviewer 2: this should go further, and show it extends to `description` and `url`

also, since in the diagram you add also other elements of the info object, because you want to match the example, maybe the diagram should highlight the most important "path" for clarity? so when you look at the diagram you know what is the most important?

have a look at what I mean: [example](https://mermaid.live/edit#pako:eNqNkd9rwjAQx_-VcnutEttoawYDnTrGtpftbakPob1qsE1KGodO_N-XpuAcg7F7Oj73vR_c9wS5LhAYbIxotsHza6aCYMZFe1S5aOQ6GAzugjmXqtTrrjT34J5baSu8Igv-gaaVWl2xJS-wzY1s7E--4lZsWg9WHjxwJWq8Ao-_Onv-xPFg0ShRLXTeTehKrT1WGMyCUlYVuylL4iJsrdE7ZDcuv_0Wzf8jWv0tghBqNLWQhfvaqSMZ2C3WmAFzaSHMLoNMnZ1u3xTC4rKQVhtgpahaDEHsrX5z372AXrWQwllQX2gjFLATHIBFNBpSkkzolI4iSlIah3AEFpNkmExG04SMaZTQND6H8Km1m0CGY9JHGqdxNEmiENAf8dJ77S33K959g195_gLINp-X)

of course colour I pick sucks, that is something you need to agree with others to be consistent across diagrams. Definitely you would have to involve Maya to check what colour would be best for website. Anyway, you get my point, something to consider

Reviewer 2: and of course other diagrams should follow

```

> Below is an example of the `tags` object inside the `info` object in an AsyncAPI document:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Below is an example of the `tags` object being implemented inside the `info` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```
Can we do this? @TRohit20

```yaml
asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: AsyncAPI Documentation
  version: 1.0.0
  description: |

>     This AsyncAPI document provides a overview

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    This AsyncAPI document provides an overview
```

Author: This serves as placeholder text for an example. Doesn't really effect anything

Reviewer 3: Okay.

    of the event-driven system.

>   tags:

Reviewer 2: regarding names of tags and description, always best to copy real life example. Take them from ZoraBots https://bitbucket.org/qbmt/zbos-mqtt-api/src/master/zbos_mqtt-all-asyncapi.json (bottom of the document, of course not all, maybe 2-3, and external docs, just invent 😉 )

    - name: Finance
      description: APIs related to financial transactions
    - name: Customer
      description: APIs related to customer interactions

>     - name: Inventory

Reviewer 2: `externalDocs` example should be here too

      description: APIs related to inventory management
```

### `Tags` in `Servers` Object
Tags when used within the `tags` property of the `servers` object, are specific to the servers' configurations and relate to the server-level characteristics. These tags allow for the categorization of server instances based on their properties or criteria, such as geographical location, environment (e.g., production, development), or specific server capabilities. Using tags in servers object allows for the categorization and organization of servers based on specific tags or labels.

Here's a visual representation of the `tags` object inside a `servers` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```mermaid
graph LR
  A[asyncapi] --> B[servers]
  B --> C[host]
  B --> D[description]
  B --> E[protocol]
  B --> F[protocolVersion]
  B --> G[tags]
  G --> H[name]
  G --> I[description]
  G --> J[externalDocs]
```

> Below is an example of the `tags` object inside the `servers` object in an AsyncAPI document:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Below is an example of the `tags` object being implemented inside the `servers` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```
Thoughts? @TRohit20

        description: RabbitMQ broker for the production environment.
        protocol: amqp
        protocolVersion: 0-9-1
        tags:
            - name: "env:production"
              description: "This environment is the live environment available for final users."
```

### `Tags` in `Channels` object
Tags are associated with individual channels allowing for logical grouping and categorization of channels based on specific functionalities or business domains. The `tags` object when used within a `channels` object, the context is restricted to the `channels` object and the individual `channel` of the AsyncAPI document, meaning they only impact the `channels` object of the AsyncAPI document. 

Here's a visual representation of the `tags` object inside a `channels` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```mermaid
graph LR
  A[channel]
  B(address)
  C(title)
  D(description)
  E(messages)
  H(parameters)
  J(servers)
  M(bindings)
  P(tags)
  R(externalDocs)
  F(name)
  G(description)
  I(externalDocs)
  Z(asyncapi)

  Z --> A
  A --> B
  A --> C
  A --> D
  A --> E
  A --> H
  A --> J
  A --> M
  A --> P
  A --> R
  P --> F
  P --> G 
  P --> I 
```

> Below is an example of the `tags` object inside the `channels` object in an AsyncAPI document:

Reviewer 3: Would like to add the same changes here but after approving the above ones

    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        $ref: '#/components/messages/userSignedUp'
    tags:
      - name: user
        description: User-related messages
```

### `Tags` in `Operations` Object
The `tags` object within the `operations` object of the AsyncAPI document allows for logical grouping and categorization of individual `operation` objects based on the type of operation or functionality and more. The `tags` object when used within a `operations` object, the context is restricted to the `operations` object and the individual `operation` of the AsyncAPI document, meaning they only impact the `operations` object of the AsyncAPI document. 

Here's a visual representation of the `tags` object inside a `operations` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```mermaid
graph LR
  A[operation]
  B(title)
  C(summary)
  D(description)
  E(channel)
  F(action)
  G(security)
  H(tags)
  I(bindings)
  J(traits)
  K(messages)
  L(reply)
  M(address)
  N(channel)
  W(asyncapi)
  X(name)
  Y(description)
  Z(externalDocs)
  
  W --> A
  A --> B
  A --> C
  A --> D
  A --> E
  A --> F
  A --> G
  A --> H
  A --> I
  A --> J
  A --> K
  A --> L
  L --> M
  L --> N
  H --> X
  H --> Y
  H --> Z
```

> Below is an example of the `tags` object inside the `operations` object in an AsyncAPI document:

Reviewer 3: Same suggestion as above

```yaml
operations:
  onUserSignUp:
    title: User sign up
    summary: Action to sign a user up.
    description: A longer description
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/userSignup'
    action: send
    tags:
      - name: user
        description: operation related to user
      - name: signup
        description: operation related to a user's signUp
      - name: register

>         description: operation related to a new registration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        description: operation related to a new user's registration
```

Author: Again, this is just a placeholder text serving as a example, doesn't effect anything.

    bindings:
      amqp:
        ack: false
    traits:
      - $ref: '#/components/operationTraits/kafka'
```

### `Tags` in `message` object
Tags are associated with individual message objects allowing for logical grouping and categorization of messages based on specific requirements or criteria or given channels and operations and more. The `tags` object when used within a `message` object, the context is restricted to the `message` object of the AsyncAPI document, meaning they only impact the `message` object of the AsyncAPI document. 

Here's a visual representation of a `tags` object inside a `message` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```mermaid
graph LR
  A[message] --> B[summary]
  A --> C[tags]
  C --> D[name]
  C --> E[description]
  A --> F[headers]
  F --> G[correlationId]
  F --> H[applicationInstanceId]
  A --> I[payload]
```

> Below is an example of the `tags` object inside the `message` object in an AsyncAPI document:

Reviewer 3: same suggestion as above

```yaml
 name: SimpleSignup
summary: A simple UserSignup example message
tags: 
    - name: userSignUp
      description: some message related to user signup
headers:
  correlationId: my-correlation-id
  applicationInstanceId: myInstanceId
payload:
  user:
    someUserKey: someUserValue
  signup:
    someSignupKey: someSignupValue
```

> 

Reviewer 2: the best would be to have at the end a summary example, with all the above examples combined into one AsyncAPI document, where all tags are defined in components, and then referenced in other components, you know what I mean?

---
title: 'Tags'
weight: 63
---

> A tag is a label or category that helps you logically group related objects such as channels or servers within an event-driven system. The `tag` object enables you to group channels, operations or other components based on their functionality, purpose and/or any other relevant criteria.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A tag functions as a label or category for logically grouping related entities like channels or servers in an event-driven system. The `tag` object facilitates the organization of channels, operations, or other components, categorizing them based on functionality, purpose, or other relevant criteria.
```

> In AyncAPI, the `tags` object is essentially a list of `tag` objects. Within the `tags` object, you can define individual `tag`s, specifying a name and providing an optional description that adds further context to the tag's purpose or usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In AyncAPI, the `tags` object is a list of individual `tag` objects. Each `tag` within this collection can be defined with a specific name, accompanied by an optional description that offers additional insight into the tag's intended purpose or usage.
```

> `tags` can be defined in the [`components` object](/docs/reference/specification/latest#componentsObject) of an AsyncAPI document, which enables the reusability of the tags. `tags` included in the `components` object can be re-used by using [reference objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#referenceObject).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define `tags` in the [`components` object](/docs/reference/specification/latest#componentsObject) of an AsyncAPI document, which enables the reusability of the tags. If you include `tags` in the `components` object, they can be re-used by using [reference objects](/docs/reference/specification/latest#referenceObject).
```

> Additionally, you can define a list of tags you wanna use across the document under the `tags` object on the `info` level and you can reuse those tags under individual components such as `servers` or `channels` allowing you to group components logically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, within AsyncAPI, you can create a list of tags in the `tags` object at the `info` level, specifying the tags you intend to use throughout the document. These predefined tags can then be applied to individual components like `servers` or `channels`, facilitating logical grouping and organization of these components.
```

> ## `Tags` in AsyncAPI Document

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## `tags` in AsyncAPI document
```

> The `tags` object is a list of `tag` objects that can be referenced by [reference object](/docs/reference/specification/latest#referenceObject).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `tags` object consists of a list of `tag` objects, which can be referenced using the [reference object](/docs/reference/specification/latest#referenceObject).
```

> The `tags` object is a list of tags and individual `tag` objects contain some fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `tags` object is a list of tags and individual `tag` objects, each containing specific fields.
```

> The behaviour of tags inside the `tags` object in the AsyncAPI document can vary based on the context of the object it is being used in. For instance, you can use the `tags` object to have tags used consistently across the AsyncAPI document for logical grouping of components or you can use tags under individual components like on `servers` or `channels` for a specific purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In an AsyncAPI document, the function of tags within the `tags` object differs depending on context. For example, the `tags` object can be employed for consistent usage of tags across the document and logical grouping of components. Alternatively, tags can be applied to individual components such as `servers` or `channels`, serving more specific purposes within those contexts.
```

> Some of the fields that the `tags` object holds are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `tags` object fields include: 
```

- `name`: The name of the tag.
- `description`: A short description for the tag.

> - `externalDocs`: Additional external documentation for this tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `externalDocs`: Additional external documentation for the tag.
```

> ### `Tags` in `Info` Object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `tags` in `info` object
```

> When defined within the `tags` property of the info object, tags provide a high-level categorization and classification for the entire AsyncAPI document. These tags that are defined under the `info` object give a global context to the entire application, representing overarching themes or functional areas within the event-driven system. They serve as a way to group objects such as channels or servers based on their broader significance, providing a holistic understanding of the application's structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When specified in the `tags` property of the info object, tags offer a comprehensive categorization for the entire AsyncAPI document. These globally defined tags under the `info` object impart an overarching context, representing key themes or functional areas within the event-driven system. They effectively group elements like channels or servers by their broader relevance, providing a holistic understanding of the application's structure.
```

Here's a visual representation of the `tags` object inside an `info` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```mermaid
graph LR
  B[info]
  B --> C[title]
  B --> D[version]
  B --> F[tags]
  F --> G[name]
  F --> I[description]
  F --> K[externalDocs]

  style B fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style F fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style I fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style K fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style G fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
```

Below is an example of the `tags` object inside the `info` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```yaml
asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: AsyncAPI Documentation
  version: 1.0.0
  description: |
    This AsyncAPI document provides an overview
    of the event-driven system.
  tags:
    - name: Applications
      description: All applications related topics. 
      externalDocs:
        description: More info about applications
        url: https://applications.example.com/docs
    - name: Time
      description: All time related topics.
      externalDocs:
        description: More info about time
        url: https://time.example.com/docs
```

> ### `Tags` in `Servers` Object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `tags` in `servers` object
```

> Tags when used within the `tags` property of the `servers` object, are specific to the servers' configurations and relate to the server-level characteristics. These tags allow for the categorization of server instances based on their properties or criteria, such as geographical location, environment (e.g., production, development), or specific server capabilities. Using `tags` in the `servers` object allows for the categorization and organization of servers based on specific tags or labels. Using the `tags` object under the `servers` object is optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When tags are utilized within the `servers` object's `tags` property, they specifically pertain to server configurations and characteristics. These tags enable server categorization by various criteria, including geographical location, environment type (i.e., production or development), or unique server features. Using `tags` in the `servers` object allows for the categorization and organization of servers based on specific tags or labels. Using the `tags` object under the `servers` object is optional.
```

Here's a visual representation of the `tags` object inside a `servers` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```mermaid
graph LR
  B[servers]
  B --> C[host]
  B --> E[protocol]
  B --> G[tags]
  G --> H[name]
  G --> I[description]
  G --> J[externalDocs]
  style B fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style G fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style I fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style H fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style J fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
```

Below is an example of the `tags` object inside the `servers` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```yaml
asyncapi: 3.0.0

info:
  title: AsyncAPI Documentation
  version: 1.0.0

servers:
  development:
    host: localhost:5672
    description: Development AMQP broker.
    protocol: amqp
    protocolVersion: 0-9-1
    tags:
      - name: "env:development"
        description: "This environment is meant for developers to run their tests."
  production:
    host: rabbitmq.in.mycompany.com:5672
    description: RabbitMQ broker for the production environment.
    protocol: amqp
    protocolVersion: 0-9-1
    tags:
      - name: "env:production"
        description: "This environment is the live environment available for final users."
```

> ### `Tags` in `Channels` object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `tags` in `channels` object
```

> Tags are associated with individual channels allowing for logical grouping and categorization of channels based on specific functionalities or business domains. The `tags` object when used within a `channels` object, the context is either restricted to the `channels` object and the individual `channel` of the AsyncAPI document, meaning they only affect the `channels` object of the AsyncAPI document or they could be used for consistency of tags across the document for logical grouping. Using the `tags` object under the `channels` object is optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tags linked with individual channels enable logical grouping and categorization based on specific functionalities or business domains. When the `tags` object is used within a `channels` object in an AsyncAPI document, its context is either confined to the `channels` object, impacting only that section, or it can be employed for consistent tagging across the document for cohesive grouping. Using the `tags` object under the `channels` object is optional.
```

Here's a visual representation of the `tags` object inside a `channels` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```mermaid
graph LR
  A[channel]
  B(address)
  E(messages)
  P(tags)
  F(name)
  G(description)
  I(externalDocs)

  A --> B
  A --> E
  A --> P
  P --> F
  P --> G 
  P --> I 
  style A fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style P fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style F fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style G fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style I fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
```

Below is an example of the `tags` object inside the `channels` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```yaml
asyncapi: 3.0.0

info:
  title: AsyncAPI Documentation
  version: 1.0.0

channels:
  SignedUp:
    address: 'user.signedup'
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        payload:
          type: object
    tags:
      - name: user
        description: User-related messages
```

> ### `Tags` in `Operations` Object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `tags` in `operations` object
```

> The `tags` object within the `operations` object of the AsyncAPI document allows for logical grouping and categorization of individual `operation` objects based on the type of operation or functionality and more. The `tags` object when used within an `operations` object, it can either only affect the `operations` object for a specific purpose or it could be to be in consistent use of tags for logical grouping of components. Using the `tags` object in the `operations` object is optional.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within an AsyncAPI document, the `tags` object in the `operations` object facilitates logical grouping and categorization of `operation` objects by operation type, functionality, and more. When used in an `operations` object, the `tags` can either serve a specific purpose within that object or be employed for consistent, logical grouping of components across the document. Using the `tags` object in the `operations` object is optional.
```

Here's a visual representation of the `tags` object inside a `operations` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```mermaid
graph LR
  A[operation]
  E(channel)
  F(action)
  H(tags)
  X(name)
  Y(description)
  Z(externalDocs)

  A --> E
  A --> F
  A --> H
  H --> X
  H --> Y
  H --> Z
  style A fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style Z fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style H fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style Y fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style X fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
```

Below is an example of the `tags` object inside the `operations` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```yaml
operations:
  onUserSignUp:
    title: User sign up
    summary: Action to sign a user up.
    description: A longer description
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/userSignup'
    action: send
    tags:
      - name: user
        description: operation related to user
      - name: signup
        description: operation related to a user's signUp
      - name: register
        description: operation related to a new registration
    bindings:
      amqp:
        ack: false
    traits:
      - $ref: '#/components/operationTraits/kafka'
```

> ### `Tags` in `message` object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `tags` in `message` object
```

> Tags are associated with individual message objects allowing for logical grouping and categorization of messages based on specific requirements or criteria or given channels and operations and more. The `tags` object when used within a `message` object, the context is either restricted to the `message` object of the AsyncAPI document, meaning they only affect the `message` object of the AsyncAPI document or it could be a part of consistent use of tags across the document for logical grouping. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tags linked to individual message objects in an AsyncAPI document enable logical grouping and categorization of messages based on specific criteria, requirements, channels, and operations. When implemented within a `message` object, the context of the `tags` object can be confined to that specific message or integrated as the strategy for consistent tagging and logical organization across the entire document.
```

Here's a visual representation of a `tags` object inside a `message` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```mermaid
graph LR
  A[message] --> B[summary]
  A --> C[tags]
  C --> D[name]
  C --> E[description]
  A --> F[headers]
  A --> I[payload]
  C --> Y[externalDocs]
  style A fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style D fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style C fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style E fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style Y fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
```

Below is an example of the `tags` object inside the `message` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```yaml
 name: SimpleSignup
summary: A simple UserSignup example message
tags: 
    - name: userSignUp
      description: some message related to user signup
headers:
  correlationId: my-correlation-id
  applicationInstanceId: myInstanceId
payload:
  user:
    someUserKey: someUserValue
  signup:
    someSignupKey: someSignupValue
```

> ## Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Here's an example illustrating all the tags being defined in the `components` object and then referenced in other components such as `servers`, `channels` and more:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an example illustrating all the tags being defined in the `components` object and then referenced in other components such as `servers`, `channels`, and more:
```

Here's a visual representation of the `tags` object inside an `info` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```mermaid
graph LR
  A[asyncapi] --> B[info]
  B --> C[title]
  B --> D[version]
  B --> E[description]
  B --> F[tags]
  F --> G[name]
  F --> I[description]
  F --> K[externalDocs]

  style A fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style B fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style F fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style I fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style K fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style G fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
```

Below is an example of the `tags` object inside the `info` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```yaml
asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: AsyncAPI Documentation
  version: 1.0.0
  description: |
    This AsyncAPI document provides an overview
    of the event-driven system.
  tags:
    - name: Applications
      description: All applications related topics. 

>       url: https://applications.example.com/docs

Reviewer 2: I don't think it is a valid AsyncAPI document. Please always check with studio or other tools

you should have `externalDocs` first, with `description` and `url`

valid document could be:
```yml
asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: AsyncAPI Documentation
  version: 1.0.0
  description: |
    This AsyncAPI document provides an overview
    of the event-driven system.
  tags:
    - name: Applications
      description: All applications related topics. 
      externalDocs:
        description: More info about applications
        url: https://applications.example.com/docs
    - name: Time
      description: All time related topics.
      externalDocs:
        description: More info about time
        url: https://time.example.com/docs
```

Author: My bad, I was little confused on how to add the external docs component. Will make the changes throughout the document and validate using studio before updating

Here's a visual representation of the `tags` object inside a `servers` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```mermaid
graph LR
  A[asyncapi] --> B[servers]
  B --> C[host]
  B --> D[description]
  B --> E[protocol]
  B --> F[protocolVersion]
  B --> G[tags]
  G --> H[name]
  G --> I[description]
  G --> J[externalDocs]
  style A fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style B fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style G fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style I fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style H fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style J fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
```

Below is an example of the `tags` object inside the `servers` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```yaml

> servers:

Reviewer 2: I think it is good to have copy paste examples, like you have in first paragraph, so maybe better do

```yml
asyncapi: 3.0.0

info:
  title: AsyncAPI Documentation
  version: 1.0.0

servers:
  development:
    host: localhost:5672
    description: Development AMQP broker.
    protocol: amqp
    protocolVersion: 0-9-1
    tags:
      - name: "env:development"
        description: "This environment is meant for developers to run their tests."
  production:
    host: rabbitmq.in.mycompany.com:5672
    description: RabbitMQ broker for the production environment.
    protocol: amqp
    protocolVersion: 0-9-1
    tags:
      - name: "env:production"
        description: "This environment is the live environment available for final users."
```

Author: Addressed.

Here's a visual representation of the `tags` object inside a `channels` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```mermaid
graph LR
  A[channel]
  B(address)
  C(title)
  D(description)
  E(messages)
  H(parameters)
  J(servers)
  M(bindings)
  P(tags)
  R(externalDocs)
  F(name)
  G(description)
  I(externalDocs)
  Z(asyncapi)

  Z --> A
  A --> B
  A --> C
  A --> D
  A --> E
  A --> H
  A --> J
  A --> M
  A --> P
  A --> R
  P --> F
  P --> G 
  P --> I 
  style A fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style Z fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style P fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style F fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style G fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style I fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
```

Below is an example of the `tags` object inside the `channels` object in an AsyncAPI document:
```yaml

> channels:

Reviewer 2: same as wit previous you could do

```yml
asyncapi: 3.0.0

info:
  title: AsyncAPI Documentation
  version: 1.0.0

channels:
  SignedUp:
    address: 'user.signedup'
    messages:
      userSignedUp:
        payload:
          type: object
    tags:
      - name: user
        description: User-related messages
```

Author: Addressed
